#INFO/Secondary/Lecture 

---

# Keypoints

- [Clive Wearing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Wearing)
    - Wearing's dual **retrograde-anterograde amnesia** ([[Anterograde Amnesia]]) phenomenon is often referred to as '30-second Clive' in reference to his 30-second episodic memory capacity
    - Damage of hippocampus
    - Procedure memories are not damaged
	- Jimmie G.
	    - Neurological impairment known as [Korsakov's syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korsakoff_syndrome), a condition caused by alcohol-related damage to the mammillary bodies in the brain. Korsakov's syndrome impairs short-term memory and causes retrograde amnesia—the inability to recall memories.
	    - Korsakoff syndrome, or Korsakoff psychosis, tends to develop as Wernicke encephalopathy as symptoms go away. Wernicke encephalopathy causes brain damage in lower parts of the brain called the thalamus and hypothalamus. Korsakoff psychosis results from permanent damage to areas of the brain involved with memory.
- Physiological emotion response vs. Cognitive emotion
    - Physic response may continue after cognitive response

## Lecture Questions

- [x] Check Slide

# Lecture Question

- What is the difference between Clive Wearing's condition with Alzheimer disease?
    - Alzheimer can retrograde (recall), but Clive cannot
- What is the difference between Clive Wearning's condition with other hippocampus damages with trauma or mental disorders?
- Will emotional "feelings" still be present when memory encoding are damaged?


