---
title: "PSY260: - L15"
tags: [Note]
date: [2022-09-12]
---

# Textbook

1. Surfing is an example of a(n) () skill because surfers have to adapt to variations in the qualities of each wave.[^1]
2. Updating a website is an example of a(n) () skill because it requires using computer programming knowledge to solve a problem.[^2]
3. Skiing is an example of a(n) () skill because it requires coordinating movements based on sensory information.[^3]
4. Historically, researchers have questioned whether it is possible for animals other than humans to learn () skills.[^4]
5. According to the (), performance during learning improves rapidly at first, and then slows down.[^5]
6. People improve at the serial reaction time task without realizing that some sequences are being repeatedly presented or that their performance is improving, which suggests that their learning is ().[^6]
7. If a baby is able to eat Grape Nuts using a spoon but shows no ability to eat them using a spork, then this may be a case of ().[^7]
8. A teenager who is learning to make macaroni and cheese for the first time is likely to be in the () stage of skill acquisition.[^8]
9. Getting drunk will impair processing in your (), which will make it harder to perform skills such as walking in a straight line.[^9]
10. Cramming the night before an exam is an example of ().[^10]
11. Practicing the piano once a week for several months is an example of ().[^11]
12. Practicing a single dance routine that is synchronized to a specific piece of music is an example of () practice.[^12]
13. Practicing catching a baseball thrown at various heights, speeds, and distances is an example of () practice.[^13]
14. The fact that professional athletes generally are not exceptional at all sports can be viewed as a case of ().[^14]
15. Thorndike proposed the () to explain why skills transfer best when they are used in situations that are highly similar to the one in which they were originally learned.[^15]
16. Being able to type a text message without looking at the phone is an example of the () stage of skill acquisition.[^16]
17. Neurons in the () change their firing patterns as rats learn to perform a perceptual-motor skill.[^17]
18. In (), extensive practicing of an instrument leads to loss of motor control.[^18]
19. An age-related disorder involving a reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons that affect basal ganglia activity is ().[^19]


# Lecture

- Kinds of Skill Memories
    - Compare and contrast [[Explicit Memory]] and [[Skilled Memory]]
        - | Skill memories                                         | Memories for [[Episodic Memory\|events]] and [[Semantic Memory\|facts]]                     |
        | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
        | Are **difficult to convey** except by direct demonstration | Can be communicated flexibly, in different formats |
        | May be acquired **without awareness**                      | Have content that is consciously accessible        |
        | Require several **repetitions**                            | Can be acquired in a single exposure, improves with repetition               |
    - What is a skill & a [[Skilled Memory]]?
        - *Skill*: An ability to perform a task that has been honed through learning
        - *Skilled memory*: It improves with practice, and can be long-lasting
    - What are the 2 kinds of skill memories?
        - [[Procedure-Motor Skill]] & [[Cognitive Skill]]
- Practice
    - Define the 4 key characteristics of good [[Practice]]
        1. Effective practice needs [[Practice#Quality Feedback|quality feedback]] on performance (self-testing)
        2. Feedback should not be too frequent
        3. Practice should be spaced out ([[Practice#Spaced Repetition|space repetition]])
        4. Practice should consist of a mix of skills ([[Practice#Varied Practice|varied practice]]) rather than focus on one single skill (constant practice)
    - How could the [[Power Law of Learning]] explain why expertise is so rare?
        - Because few would be willing to spent huge amount of time for small improvements
        - <u>Overcome</u>: Feedback of the right kind, given at the right moment(s) can boost performance again
    - What are the two types of [[Learning]]
        - [[Learning#Explicit Learning]]
        - [[Learning#Implicit Learning]]
            - *Serial reaction time task*:  An experimental task that requires individuals to press keys in specific sequences on the basis of cues provided by a computer; used to study implicit learning.

[^1]: open
[^2]: cognitive
[^3]: perceptive-motor
[^4]: cognitive
[^5]: power law of learning/practice
[^6]: implicit
[^7]: transfer specificity
[^8]: cognitive
[^9]: cerebellum
[^10]: massed practice
[^11]: spaced practice
[^12]: constant
[^13]: variable
[^14]: transfer specificity
[^15]: identical elements theory
[^16]: autonomous
[^17]: **basal ganglia**, cerebellum, motor cortex
[^18]: Musician's dystonia
[^19]: Parkinson's disease
