#INFO/Secondary/Lecture 

---

# Reading

## Questions

- View behaviour and thinking (disordered or not) as arising from the interaction between **biological and environmental** experiences.
    - There has been a consistent move toward viewing the etiology of mental health problems from an integrative perspective.
    - Biological, psychological, and socio-cultural factors interact in complex ways to produce psychiatric disorders.
    - Single-factor theories are unlikely to explain the etiology of any disorder, and are gradually falling into disuse.
    - Theories gain strength not because the evidence supports their predictions but rather because alternative explanations are rejected.
    - Recent research emphasizes the importance of the genotype–environment interaction, which describes how features that are inherited interact with the environment to produce behaviour.
- Define **neurotransmitters** and describe the four ways in which they can influence abnormal behaviour, using examples.
    - Biological views propose that brain dysfunction, neurotransmitters, hormonal or peripheral nervous system problems, or genetic errors cause psychological problems.
    - Neurotransmitters are chemical substances that carry messages from one neuron to the next. Disturbances in Theoretical Perspectives on Abnormal Behaviour neurotransmitter systems can often result in abnormal behaviour.
- Describe the role of the **id, ego, and superego** as personality structures and explain how they influence an individual’s defence mechanisms
    - Freud and other psychodynamic theorists suggested that behaviour is controlled by unconscious forces.
    - Freud discussed three levels of consciousness that determine the accessibility of thoughts and desires: the conscious, which contains information of which we are currently aware; the preconscious, which holds information that is not presently in awareness but can be brought into awareness; and the unconscious, which contains the majority of an individual’s memories and drives that can be raised into awareness only with difficulty or particular techniques.
    - The three personality structures of psychodynamic theories include the id, which represents biological or instinctual drives; the ego, which develops to control the desires of the id; and the superego, which is the internalization of the moral standards of society.
    - The ego develops defence mechanisms in an attempt to control the desires of the id.
    - Freud also described stages of psychosexual development, which indicate points in experience where problems can arise.


# Lecture

- The concept of theories in abnormal behaviour
	- [[240 - L2#^46def1|Characteristics]] of good theories
	- Level of theories
		- Single-factor
			- Psychodynamic; behavioural; cognitive; biological; humanistic
		- **Interactionist**
	- Testing theories: [[Test Hypothesis]]
- ==Biological Model==: What are the 3 structural change to the brain that effect behaviour?
    - What is [[240 - L1#^a8a261|GPI]]: 
    	- With symptoms of *dementia* has [[Brain]] based **damages/shrinkages** that can cause impairs in ones normal function
    - What is [[Plasticity]]
    	- Environmental events, the person’s response to them, and biological substrates all play a part in causing abnormal functioning
    - How can minor changes in **brain structure** will result in better/no treatment response?
    	- Brain structure difference will cause response variance in treatments
- ==Biological Model==: Define [[Neurotransmitters]] & the 4 ways they can influence abnormal behaviour
    1. Particular transmitter is **over- or under-produced** in the synapse
    2. Too many or too few **receptors** on the dendrites
    3. An excess or a deficit in the amount of the **transmitter-deactivating substance** in the synapse
    4. **Re-uptake process** may be too rapid or too slow
- ==Biological Model==: What is the role of [[Peripheral Nervous System|PNS]] in abnormal behaviour?
	- During **stressful** situation: [[Autonomic nervous system#Sympathetic Division|Sympathetic system]] will respond to it, resulting in [[Anxiety]]
	- The **strength** and **duration** of the response from system is related to a person's **propensity** to develop psychophysiological disorders
		- Over active [[Autonomic nervous system|ANS]] `->` [[Anxiety]]; [[PTSD]]
- ==Biological Model==: What are the 3 steps *Endocrine system*/[[HPA axis]] play in abnormal behaviour?
	1. Activated in **response to stressors**
	2. Release of the **stress hormone (cortisol)** into the bloodstream
	3. High dose of [[cortisol]] will cause overreaction to small stressors (increase in baseline level)
- ==Biological Model==: Describe findings in biological and environmental interactions?
	- Twin Studies
		- Studies the effects of genes with certain traits
		- Can determine statistical correlations **do exist** in genes for psychological disorders
	- Adoption Studies
		- Determine the separate effects of genetic and environment
	- Dopamine related genes
		- Differential *susceptibility* (sensitivity vs resilience) to home environment depends on dopamine related genes
		- [[Temperament]]: believed to have a strong basis in biology and genetics (effortful control, negative affectivity, extraversion)
		> children with particular variants of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4), the dopamine receptor gene (DRD4), or the MAOA gene tend to be more aggressive than children with different variants of these genes (e.g., Cecil et al., 2018; Conway et al., 2012).
- ==Psychosocial Theories==: What are the 3 important theories about psychoanalysis; its validity at current time; and 5 major limitations?
	- [[Psychoanalysis#Structure of the mind]]
	- [[Psychoanalysis#Psychosexual Stage Model]]
	- [[Psychoanalysis#Defense Mechanism]]
	- ★ [[Psychoanalysis#Contrbutions to Modern Field]]
	- Limitations
		- Claims are difficult to test [[Empiricism|empirically]]
		- Biased measures and biased population that he **generalized** to all population
		- Biased methods ([[Psychoanalysis#Free Association]], childhood experiences, and adult [[Psychoanalysis#Dream Interpretation]])
		- Childhood sexuality are exaggerated
		- Biased implying superiority of men
