
#INFO/Secondary/Lecture

---

# Readings

- Describe the principles that have been used to **define abnormality** and then apply them to determine whether a particular behaviour may meet the definition of abnormal behaviour.
    - According to the *statistical view*, abnormal behaviour can be determined by how frequently it occurs in the population.
    - *Personal distress* can indicate the presence of abnormal behaviour
    - The *personal dysfunction* viewpoint emphasizes that abnormal behaviour interferes with appropriate functioning in a particular situation or environment.
    - Abnormal behaviour could be defined in terms of whether it violates *societal norms* and values.
    - Experts may determine what qualifies as abnormal behaviour.
    - None of these principles is necessary or sufficient in defining abnormal behaviour; therefore, our definition of psychological disorders includes elements of all these principles.
- Understand how the conceptualization of psychological disorders **changed from antiquity to the 1800s**.
    - Evidence from *prehistoric* times suggests that supernatural explanations for psychological disorders may have been dominant.
    - *Greek and Roman* philosophers and physicians held surprisingly modern views and emphasized biological and psychological causes and treatments of disorders.
    - In the *Arab* world, treatment was humane and environmental and psychological factors were emphasized.
    - During the *Middle Ages* in Europe, attributing supernatural causes to psychological disorders became more common again, although some individuals continued to explore other potential causes. Asylums were established around the 1500s, but treatment was often harsh and ineffective.
    - During the *Enlightenment*, social and psychological factors became increasingly emphasized and treatments became more humane, although resources for caring for the mentally ill were still scarce.
    - Abnormal behaviour may be caused by *medical problems* such as syphilis. These problems are normally treated pharmacologically and potential medical causes are often ruled out before diagnosing a mental disorder.
- Describe at least two **treatments** that are associated with the biological approach and outline the current status of these treatments.
    - *Surgical* procedures such as lobotomies were used to remove areas of the brain that were implicated in mental disorders.
    - *Electroconvulsive therapy* employs electricity in order to induce a seizure in patients. This treatment has become much safer over the years and is still used for severe depression.
    - *Pharmacological* treatments for psychological disorders usually target neurotransmitters and are currently a popular treatment method.
- Describe the contributions of at least two influential Canadian individuals in the field of mental health care.
    - Dr. **Ruth Kajander** was one of the first psychiatrists to use major tranquilizers to treat schizophrenia.
    - **Albert Bandura** developed a theory of learning of aggressive behaviour in childhood and generated a number of treatment approaches emphasizing learning theory.
    - **Donald Meichenbaum** played a key role in the development of cognitive-behavioural therapy, which is now used as a treatment for a variety of psychological disorders.
- Describe two recent significant developments associated with mental health in Canada and discuss implications of recent technological advances on the field of psychology.
    - The Mental Health Commission of Canada was established to improve access to mental health care and to reduce the stigma of mental illness. An emphasis on the potential for recovery is characteristic of the MHCC’s approach to reducing stigma.
    - Practitioners are now being encouraged to engage in evidence-based practice, i.e., to consider and integrate research evidence into their decisions regarding the best treatment for their clients.

# Lecture

- What is the difference between Psychopathology and Mental illness?
	- *Psychopathology*: manifestation of abnormality
	- *Mental illness*: medical cause of abnormality
	- ==Abnormality==: behaviour, thought, speech that **impairs the person to function as expected**
- Definitions of Abnormal behaviour? Strength and weakness of the (4) general attempts?
    1. Statistical concept
        - Occurs **infrequently** in the population
        - Weakness: unusual can be advantageous; common still can be illness
    2. Personal **distress**
        - Weakness: can be part of life; disorder doesn't have to be distressed
    3. Personal dysfunction
        - **Harmful** dysfunction (failure to perform; harms individual)
        - Weakness: social "abnormal" is not considered here
    4. Validation of norms
        - Weakness: depend frame of reference (depend on culture)
    - Diagnosis by an expert
- History of psychological disorders
    - How did the **Prehistorical** interpret abnormal behaviours?
        - **Super-Natural** belief and [[Mind-Body Problem|mind-body]] as a whole
    - How did the **Greek and Roman** interpret abnormal behaviour?
        - Emphasized biological and psychological causes and treatments of disorders.
        - **Hippocrates**: brain dysfunction (bodily fuids) and stress
            - Monolist
            - *Hysteria(conversion disorder)*: opinion about women only
        - [[Plato]]: Hippocrates notion about dreams -> [[Sigmund Freud]]
            - Sociocultural influences: not criminally responsible
        - [[Aristotle]]: Hippocrates's bodily treatment; influenced Greek and Western History about sanatoriums for psychologically ill
    - How did the **Arab** interpret abnormal behaviour?
    	- Treatment was humane and environmental and psychological factors were emphasized
	    - <u>Galen</u>: body-separate from mind; prefer bath and talk
	- How did the **Middle Ages** interpret abnormal behaviour?
		- Exocism; witchcraft; St. Vitus' Dance
		- <u>Teresa of Avila, St. Vincent de Paul,</u>: suggesting that physical and psychological disorders had common causes
		- Asylums as zoo
		- Scientific Approach (Philippe Pinel: systematic classification)
- Modern views of psychological disorders
    - Biological Approach
        - Heredity
	        - Benedict Augustin Morel: transmitted through hereditary [[窥探]]
	        - Lombroso: inherited of the shape of skull
        - Classification
	        - <u>Emil Kraepelin</u>: symptoms as *syndromes* with distinct features
	        - <u> Krafft-Ebing</u>: **general paresis of insane** (GPI) ^a8a261
	        - *Somatogenesis*: mental disorders caused by biological factors (Infection as a cause)
        - **Surgical**: lobotomies
        - **Shock therapy**: ECT
        - **Psychopharmacology**: target [[Neurotransmitters]]
    - Psychological Approach
	    - [[Psychoanalysis]] - Josef Breuer (catharitic method); [[Sigmund Freud]]
	    - [[Behaviourism]] - [[John Watson]]
	    - Canadian History: <u>Ewen Cameron</u>: LSD & brainwashing
- What are the 3 **modern treatment** options for mental disorder and the related psychologist?
	1. ECT: induce a seizure in patients
		- Induced **convulsions**; beneficial only for depressed patients
	2. Psychopharmacology: Tranquilizers (medications for neurotransmitters) by (Dr. Ruth Kajander)
		- *Chlorpromazine* (an antipsychotic drug)
	3. CBT: changing the thinking process (Donald Meichenbaum)
 ee