#INFO/Secondary/Lecture

---

> [[Mental Disorders#Anxiety-Related Disorders]]
> 
> [[Anxiety Disorders]]: [[Specific Phobia]], [[Social Anxiety Disorder]], [[Generalized Anxiety Disorder]], [[Obsessive–Compulsive Disorder|OCD]]

# Reading


# Lecture

- `PDF`:
- `Summary`
- [[Specific Phobia]] 
    - ==Symptoms==: What are the 3 common [[Specific Phobia#Symptoms|symptoms]] of phobic?
        - Persistent avoidance; Excessive; Interfere life
    - ==Types==: What are the [[Specific Phobia#^303021|5 types]] of common phobia
    - ==Etiology==: What are the 2 models and 2 explanations of phobia?
        - `Associative Model`
            - **Learned** phobia
            - [[Little Albert Study]]
            - *Equipotentiality premise*: assumes that all neutral stimuli have an equal potential for becoming phobias.
        - `Non-Associative Model`
            - Biological predisposition for acquiring certain phobias
            - Failure to [[Habituation]] (lack of exposure) + genetic vulnerability to [[Anxiety]] = [[Specific Phobia]]
        - *Disgust sensitivity*:  the degree to which people are susceptible to being disgusted by a variety of stimuli such as certain bugs, types of food, and small animals
        - Caused by the [[Autonomic nervous system#Sympathetic Division]] activation
- [[Social Anxiety Disorder]]
    - ==Symptoms== What are the key [[Separation Anxiety Disorder#Symptoms|symptoms]] of SAD
        - Afraid of social or performance situations
        - High comorbidity (ex. depression, substance use)
        - Individuals with social anxiety are generally well aware of the fact that their fears are excessive and unreasonable.
    - ==Etiology==:
        - Genetic: What is the genetic percentage and the 3 biological component?
            - $50\%$
            - [[Temperament]]: Behavioural inhibition
            - What are the 3 [[Brain]] structures involved in SAD?
                1. Fear recognition and conditioning (e.g. [[Amygdala]])
                2. Anxious arousal and stress (e.g. [[HPA axis]])
                3. Monitoring of negative affect (e.g. [[Prefrontal Cortex]] and orbitofrontal cortex)
            - [[Neurotransmitters]]
                - Dysregulation of [[Serotonin]], [[Norepinephrine]], and other neurotransmission systems during stress responses are likely associated with socially anxious behaviour
        - Environmental Factors: What is the major social factor influencing SAD?
            - Being **victimized** (bullying, teasing) during childhood
        - Cognitive Factors: What are the 3 cognitive misinterpretation in SAD?
            - Self-focused attention – highly self-critical
            -   Public self-consciousness
            -   Dishonest self-disclosure - Less authentic manner in interactions with others
- [[Generalized Anxiety Disorder]]
    - Prevalence
        - $9\%$ of population
        - Female `>` Male
    - ==Symptoms==
        - [[Generalized Anxiety Disorder#^47f64d|3 out of 6 symptoms]]
        - Share symptoms with [[Major Depressive Disorder]]
    - ==Eiology== What is the 2 roles of cognition in GAD
        - Verbal aspects of worry **dampen** uncomfortable anxious **arousal**
            - Anxious images **elicit** arousal, whereas verbal thoughts **decrease** arousal
            - Worrying: `Verbal Thought > Imagery`
            - Relax: `Imagery > Verbal Thought`
            - GAD: `Imagery = Verbal Thought`
        - *Intolerance of uncertainty (IU)*: discomfort with ambiguity and uncertainty
            - Individuals with GAD tend to have lower thresholds for these uncertainties
- [[Obsessive–Compulsive Disorder]]
    - ==Symptoms==: What re the 3 major [[Obsessive–Compulsive Disorder#Symptoms|components]] of OCD
        - To what extend can OCD be clinical?
            - The obsessions or compulsions are **time consuming** (ex. take more than 1 hour per day) or cause **clinically significant distress** or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning
        - What 2 fusion thinking process will worsen the symptoms?
            - *Thought-action fusion (TAF)*: two types of irrational thinking
                1. The belief that having a particular thought **increases the probability** that the thought will come true
                    - Ex. thinking about harming another person is as bad as doing it
                2. The belief that having a particular thought is the **moral equivalent of a particular action**
                    - Ex. that a family member will die in a car crash
    - ==Etiology==:
        - Neurobiological
            - [[Basal Ganglia]] + [[Frontal Lobe]]
                - Basal hyperactivity
            - SSRIs - [[Serotonin]] neurotransmission
        - [[Cognitive Model]]
            - Obsessions are caused by the person’s reaction to their own [[intrusive thoughts]]
            - Catastrophic **misinterpretations** of these thoughts
            - Unhelpful efforts to control the intrusions (ex. thought suppression)
        - What do [[Memory]] do in OCD?
            - OCD patients have l confidence in their memory
            - Repeated checking lowers memory confidence, intensifies doubts and sustains repeated checking
- [[Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder|PTSD]]
    - What are the 4 common [[Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder#Symptoms|symptoms]] of PTSD?
    - What are the 5 (A-E) important [[Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder#Diagnosis|criteria]] for PTSD?
    - What are some [[Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder#Etiology|risk factors]] in developing PTSD?
- ==Treatment== For [[Anxiety Disorders|anxiety-related disorders]]
    - **Exposure** Techniques
        - Systematic [[Sensitization|desensitization]]
            - Developing a **fear hierarchy**
            - Extinction
        - In vivo exposure
        - Worry imagery exposure (GAD)
        - Flooding or intense exposure
        - Interoceptive exposure (Panic Disorder)
        - Exposure with ritual prevention (OCD)
    - Problem Solving
    - Relaxation Training
        - Decrease anxious arousal
        - Mental relaxation and physical relaxation
        - Techniques such as positive imagery, meditation, breathing exercices
    - Mindfulness-based strategies
        - Let go of your judgments
        - Focus on the here and now
    - Cognitive Perspective 
        - Focus on the unhelpful beliefs that people develop after a trauma and the ways in which these perpetuate chronic arousal and hypervigilance
        - [[Cognitive Behavioural Therapy]]: Cognitive Restructuring
            - Change a person’s erroneous and unhelpful thinking
            - Monitor and examine their thoughts – develop more balanced appraisals
