---
title: "MGT100: - L4"
tags: [Note]
date: [2023-01-17]
---


# Reading

- Describe management
    - What is management?
        - Management is the process of achieving organizational goals through people and other resources. The manager’s job is to **combine human and technical resources** in the best way possible to achieve the company’s goals.
    -  Describe the differences in the jobs of top managers, middle managers, and supervisory managers.
        - Top managers develop long-range **plans**, set a **direction** for their organization, and inspire all employees to achieve the company’s vision.
        - Middle managers focus their attention on **specific operations, products, or customers**. They develop plans and procedures to carry out the firm’s strategic plans.
        - Supervisory managers deal directly with nonmanagerial employees who produce and sell the firm’s goods and services. These managers are responsible for **carrying out the plans** developed by middle managers and for **motivating** workers to accomplish immediate goals.
    -  What is the relationship between the manager’s planning and controlling functions?
        - Controlling is assessing an organization’s performance to decide whether it is achieving its goals.
        - The basic purpose of **controlling is to assess the success of the planning** function. Controlling also provides **feedback** for future rounds of planning
- Role of vision and ethical standards
    -  What is meant by a vision for the firm?
        - *Vision*: the founder’s ability to perceive marketplace needs and what an organization must do to satisfy them. A vision is a focus for a firm’s actions.
        - Vision helps to **direct the company** toward opportunities and sets it apart from its competitors.
    - Why is it important for a top executive to set high ethical standards?
        - High ethical standards often result in a **stable workforce, job satisfaction, and customer loyalty**
- Types & Importance for planning
    - Outline the planning process.
        -
            ```text
            [Mission Statement] --> [Specific Objective] --> [Acition Items]
            ```
        - Some plans are very broad and long range. These plans focus on the main organizational goals.
        - Other plans are more detailed and show **how particular goals will be met**. Each planning step—from the mission statement to objectives to specific plans—must fit into an overall plan.
    - Describe the purpose of tactical planning.
        - The purpose of tactical planning is to decide **which short-term activities should be carried out** to meet the firm’s overall strategy.
    - Compare the types of plans made by top managers and middle managers. How does their focus differ?
        - Top managers focus on **long-range, strategic** plans.
        - In contrast, middle-level managers and supervisors focus on **short-term, tactical** planning.
- Strategic planning process
    -
        ```text
        [1. Vission] ---[Top-M.]--> [2. Mission Statement] ---[SWOT]-->
        [3. Competigive Position] ---[Middle-M.]--> [4. Specific Objectives] -->
        [5. Strategies] --> [6. Action Plan] --> [7. Assess Results]
        ```
    - What is the purpose of a mission statement?
        - *Mission statement*: is a public description of a firm’s **purpose**, the reason it **exists**, the **customers** it will serve, and the way it is different from competitors. A mission statement guides the actions of company managers and employees.
    -  Which of a firm’s characteristics are compared in a SWOT analysis?
        - A `SWOT` analysis assesses a firm’s *strengths*, *weaknesses*, *opportunities*, and *threats*, compared with its competitors.
        - A SWOT analysis helps to decide on a firm’s **competitive position** in the marketplace.
    -  How do managers use objectives?
        - Objectives result from the firm’s mission statement. They are used to **set performance levels** in areas such as profitability, customer service, and employee satisfaction.
- Business decisions and steps in decision making
    - Distinguish between programmed and nonprogrammed decisions.
        - *Programmed decisions* involve **simple** problems that occur **frequently**, such as reordering office supplies. The firm usually sets **policies** and **procedures** for dealing with these problems to make the process easier.
        - *Nonprogrammed decisions* require more **individual evaluation**. For example, buying real estate or equipment is a nonprogrammed decision that needs some research.
    - What are the steps in the decision-making process?
        -
            ```text
            [1. Seeing prob.] --> [2. Developing option] --> [3. Evaluting option] -->
            [4. Selecting/Carrying option] --> [5. Access outcome]
            ```
- Define leadership, compare different styles
    - How is leadership defined?
        - *Leadership* means the ability to **direct or inspire** people to reach organizational goals.
        - Effective leaders share several personal qualities, such as **empathy, self-awareness, and objectivity in dealing with others**.
        - Leaders also use the power of their jobs, expertise, and experience to influence others.
    - Identify the styles of leadership as they range from the least to the most amount of employee participation.
        - `Autocrat < Democratic < Free-rein`
        - *Autocratic leaders* make decisions on their own without consulting employees.
        - *Democratic leaders* who ask employees for suggestions and encourage participation.
        - *Free-rein leaders* leave most decisions to their employees.
- Meaning & importance of corporate culture
    - What is the relationship between leadership style and corporate culture?
        - The *best leadership style* to adopt often **depends** on the organization’s corporate culture: its system of **principles, beliefs, and values**.
        - Corporate culture is influenced by **managers’ philosophies**, the firm’s communications networks, its **workplace environments**, and its practices.
    - What is a strong corporate culture?
        - *Corporate culture* is an organization’s collection of principles, beliefs, and values.
        - In an organization with a strong culture, everyone knows and supports the same principles, beliefs, and values.
        - Corporate culture can influence a firm’s success by giving it a competitive advantage.
- 5 major forms of departmentalization and 4 main types of organization structures
    - What is the purpose of an organization chart?
        - An *organization chart* is a **visual diagram** of a firm’s **structure** that shows job positions, job functions, and the reporting hierarchy.
    - What are the five major forms of departmentalization?
        - *departmentalization*: the division of work activities into units within the organization
        1. *Product departmentalization* organizes units by the **goods and services** a company offers.
        2. *Geographical departmentalization* organizes units by **geographical** regions.
        3. *Customer departmentalization* organizes units by different **types of customers**.
        4. *Functional departmentalization* organizes units by **business functions** such as finance, marketing, human resources, and production.
        5. *Process departmentalization* organizes units by the **steps or work processes** needed to complete production or provide a service.
    - What does span of management mean?
        The span of management, or span of control, is the number of employees a manager supervises.
    - What are the 4 major organization structures
        1. Line
        2. Line-and-staff
        3. Committee
        4. Matrix structures

# Lecture

- `PDF`:
    - [[100 - S4.pdf]]
- Management Functions
    -
        ```ad-example
        > How Starbucks went from one coffee bean store to an $80B business
        - How has good management contributed to the company’s success?
        - What challenges did Starbucks face and how did they respond to the challenges?
            - What is the potential impact of the extensive layoffs that occurred during store closings?
        - How is management responding to changing consumer preferences?
            - What is the Halo effect and what is Starbucks expecting from it?
        ```
    - What are the 4 key managerial functions
        1. *Planning*: setting performance **objective** and deciding how to achieve them
        2. *Organization*: arranging tasks, people, and other resources to accomplish the work
        3. *Leading*: inspiring people to work hard to achieve high performance
        4. *Controlling*: measuring performance and taking action to ensure desired results
- Leadership and Decision Making
- Leadership Style
- Organizational Structures
- Practical Examples



# Active Studying

#### Summarize today's lecture

- [::Most important/focused topic]
- [::Most difficult part, why, how to resolve]

#### What part I didn't understand, next step actions?

